---
layout: post
title: Time Series-Modelling Ecomomic Time Series
date: 2022-10-23 11:12:00-0400
description: 
tags: note time-series econometics
categories: sample-posts
---

# Modelling Ecomomic Time Series

## Data Generation Processes

Let $$\x_{t}$$ be an $$m\times 1$$ vector of economic variables generated at
time $$t$$. Such variables are typically inter0related both
contemporaneously and across time. The collection
$$\{\x_{t},-\infty<t<\infty\}$$ is called a vector-valued random sequence.

The data generation process (DGP) is represented by the conditional
density 

$$\begin{aligned}
D_{t}\left(\x_{t}\mid\mathcal{X}_{t-1}\right)
\end{aligned}$$ 
where
$$\mathcal{X}_{t-1}=\sigma\left(\x_{t-1},\x_{t-2},\x_{t-3},\cdots\right)$$.
This is a shorthand for the $$\sigma$$-field representing knowledge of the
past history of the system. Notice that

::: remark
$$D_{t}$$ is allowed to depend on time, because the data are not assumed
to be stationary.
:::

## DGPs and Models

A dynamic econometric model is a family of functions of the data which
are intended to mimic aspects of the DGP, either $$D_{t}$$ itself or
functions derived from $$D_{t}$$ such as moments. Formally, a model is a
family of functions $$$$\begin{aligned}
\{M\left(\x_{t},\x_{t-1},\x_{t-2},\cdots,\bm{d}_{t};\bm{\psi}\right),\bm{\psi}\in\Psi\},\Psi\subset\mathbb{R}^{p}
\end{aligned}$$$$ In particular, let $$M_{D}$$ be a model of complete DGP.

-   Parameters $$\bm{\psi}$$: $$p$$ in number; parameters are constants that
    are common to every $$t$$.

-   Parameter space: $$\Psi$$ denotes the set of admissible parameter
    values.

-   The vector $$\bm{d}_{t}$$ represents variables, treated as
    non-stochastic, which are intended to capture the changes in the DGP
    over time.

The relationship between the DGP and the model is a difficult issue. The
axiom of correct specification is the assumption that there exists a
model element that is identical to the corresponding function of the
DGP. $$M_{D}$$ is correctly specified if there exists
$$\bm{\psi}_{0}\in\Psi$$ such that $$$$\begin{aligned}
M_{D}\left(\x_{t},\x_{t-1},\x_{t-2},\cdots,\bm{d}_{t};\bm{\psi}_{0}\right)&=&D_{t}\left(\x_{t}\mid\mathcal{X}_{t-1}\right)
\end{aligned}$$$$ In general, correct specification in practical modelling
exercises is an implausible assumption.

## Sequence Properties

### Stationarity

A random sequence $$\{\x_{t}\}$$ is said to be *stationary in the wide
sense/covariance-stationary* if the mean, the variance and the sequence
of $$j$$th-order autocovariances for $$j>0$$ are all independent of $$t$$. It
is said to be *stationary in the strict sense* if for every $$k>0$$, the
joint distributions of all collections
$$\left(\x_{t},\x_{t+1},\x_{t+2},\cdots,\x_{t+k}\right)$$ do not depend in
any way on $$t$$.

### Mixing

In a mixing sequence the realization of the sequence at time $$t$$
contains no information about the realization at either $$t-j$$ or $$t+j$$,
when $$j$$ is sufficiently large. The mixing property ensures that points
in the sequence appear randomly sampled when they are far enough apart.

::: remark
Stationarity and mixing are quite distinct properties.
:::

### Ergodicity

A stationary sequence having the property that a random event involving
every member of the sequence always has probability either 0 or 1 is
called *ergodic*.

::: theorem
If $$\{x_{t}\}$$ is a stationary ergodic sequence, and $$E(x_1)$$ exists,
$$\bar{x}_{n}\to E(x_{1})$$ with probability 1.
:::